# A-Long-Integer-Data-Type
Many applications, such as cryptography, require very large integers (much larger than would fit into 32- bit or 64- bit integer types). The standard library of many languages includes a “Big Integer” data type. In this project you will implement such a Long Integer Abstract Data Type, where there is no predefined limit on the maximum value that can be stored. Such a Long Integer can have an arbitrary number of digits (i.e., tens of thousands of digits, or millions of digits, or more...). The following abstract operations are defined for the Long Integer ADT: ADD, SUBSTRACT, MULTIPLY, POWER, and various comparison operations (e.g., LESS THAN). The Long Integer ADT also has two properties associated with it: sign and number of digits. There are many possible implementations of a Long Integer ADT.

In this project the Long Integer ADT is implemented using two data structures: singly linked list and array. Additionally the performance of the Long Integer for both data structures is tested experimentally.

Changing the implementation of the Long Integer from one data structure to another would usually require you to rewrite every operation associated with the Long Integer. This would take an unnecessary amount of time for this project. The motive of this project is to remove unnecessary laborious work by creating a layer of abstraction between the Long Integer and the data structure(s) used to implement it.

Specifically, for this project the Long Integer ADT will be implemented using another ADT: a simplified version of the List ADT called the SimpleList ADT. The Long Integer will be implemented using the SimpleList ADT and its abstract operations. With this design the Long Integer will never directly interact with the data structure it is implemented with. To change the data structure implementation of the Long Integer we will only need to re-implement SimpleList’s abstract operations, a significantly simpler process.
